so Jen in Texas writes I have a gorgeous
home we designed and built 12 years ago
we want to remove all the carpet on the
first floor and replace it with either
hardwoods or tile that looks like
hardwoods we have three large dogs and
we're worried that they may damage real
hardwoods and we're hoping to increase
the resale value of our home and want to
do the right thing
I love HGTV Jenn HGTV loves you right
back so it's a really good question our
furry friends are notoriously hard on
floors right big dogs are the worst
because boy when they get going they're
little nails can really dig in when
they're trying to kill the mailman so
what I would say is if you are going to
make a purchase of hardwood floors don't
get a laminate invest in a real solid
hardwood floor
another trick if you have big dogs is to
only stain your floor's really really
lightly and keep it pretty close to the
interior color of the wood that way if
your dogs get going and scratched into
the finish you don't see a huge
difference like you would if it was a
really dark stain with a really light
interior right but you hit on another
interesting solution and that is your
tile that looks like wood now this has
really been an interesting development
recently and they've come out with all
kinds of advances in this design that
make it look more and more like a real
wood now obviously if you have your
shoes off you can tell that it's not
really a wood but they have new designs
where the planks are varying sizes and
lengths and there are more than one
print of the tile so that you don't end
up with the same repeating pattern as
often all of these are elements that are
going to make this floor look more and
more believable in your home and gosh a
porcelain tile can hold up for ever
another trick if you've got room in the
budget for it is you can actually add
radiant heating underneath of your
floors to keep it warm in the cold
winter months
I don't know how cold it gets in Texas
but it's worth considering so some
really good ideas for how to keep your
floors in good shape even with big dogs